_docs/curation/genotypic-data.md, before:

---
title: Genotypic Data
tags:
  - genotype
description: This is documentation pertaining to curation, file upload and management of genotypic data within TripalCultivate.
---
# Genotypic Data

## Metadata Preparation

### Organism
Before loading a VCF file, a chado organism record for the species the data is from needs to already exist. This can be done through the administrative interface by navigating to Tripal > Content > Add Tripal Content and clicking on "Organism" under General.

If the samples in your VCF file belong to more than one species, then each species should have its own record. For each sample, each species must be specified using the Organism column within the Samples Mapping file. If the column is left blank, the species of the genome the data was aligned to will be assumed for all samples.

### Genome
The genomic sequence information that the genotypic data was aligned to needs to exist in the database. This can be done through the built-in Tripal GFF3 and/or FASTA importers.

### Project
All genotypic data from a single file upload are grouped using a Chado project. To create a new Chado project through the administrative interface, navigate to Tripal > Content > Add Tripal Content and click on "Project" under General.

## File Preparation

### File Formats

### Mapping samples to the database

## Data Import

### Tripal Importer

### Drush command method

### File Distribution

Commit message:

Added information about the samples mapping file

_docs/curation/genotypic-data.md, after:

---
title: Genotypic Data
tags:
  - genotype
description: This is documentation pertaining to curation, file upload and management of genotypic data within TripalCultivate.
---
# Genotypic Data

## Metadata Preparation

### Organism
Before loading a VCF file, a chado organism record for the species the data is from needs to already exist. This can be done through the administrative interface by navigating to Tripal > Content > Add Tripal Content and clicking on "Organism" under General.

If the samples in your VCF file belong to more than one species, then each species should have its own record. For each sample, each species must be specified using the Organism column within the Samples Mapping file. If the column is left blank, the species of the genome the data was aligned to will be assumed for all samples.

### Genome
The genomic sequence information that the genotypic data was aligned to needs to exist in the database. This can be done through the built-in Tripal GFF3 and/or FASTA importers.

### Project
All genotypic data from a single file upload are grouped using a Chado project. To create a new Chado project through the administrative interface, navigate to Tripal > Content > Add Tripal Content and click on "Project" under General.

## File Preparation

### File Formats

### Mapping samples to the database
A file mapping the samples in the genotype file to the germplasm and samples in the database is required. The file should be tab-delimited and have 5 columns at minimum: (1) Sample name in the genotypes file, (2) Sample name, (3) Sample accession, (4) Germplasm name, (5) Germplasm accession.

The 6th and 7th column are optional: (6) Germplasm type (otherwise, it is assumed to be the default type set on the configuration page) and (7) Organism (this allows multiple organisms in your genotypes file, assuming they have all been aligned to the same genome. Otherwise, the default value is the organism that was specified as the aligned genome on the configuration page). Any additional columns will be ignored. 

## Data Import

### Tripal Importer

### Drush command method

### File Distribution
